New/migrate from GitHub (#3897)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/migrating-from-github.adoc

= Migrating from Github Actions
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:sectanchors:

This document provides an overview of how to migrate from Github Actions to CircleCI.

== Why Migrate From Github Actions to CircleCI?

> CircleCI is a first-class CI tool. CI/CD is what we specialize in, and we have been doing it for over 8 years since the company's founding. On top of normal features you'd expect from any CI/CD tool, what sets us apart from others are the various additional features that boost productivity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI is a first-class CI tool. CI/CD has been our specialization since the company's founding 8 years ago. On top of the features you would expect from any CI/CD tool, what sets us apart are the following productivity-boosting features:
```

1. **Test Parallelism** - CircleCI offers not only https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/[concurrent job execution] but also the ability to split tests between parallel environments. You can dramatically cut build times by splitting workloads between different containers. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/parallelism-faster-jobs/#using-the-circleci-cli-to-split-tests[Examples of that here].

> 2. **Resource Classes** - CircleCI offers various different sizes of executors, great for adjusting according to lighter or heavier workloads on a node. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/optimizations/#resource-class)[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Resource Classes** - CircleCI offers various different sizes of executor, great for adjusting according to lighter or heavier workloads on a node. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/optimizations/#resource-class)[Documentation here].
```

> 3. **SSH Into Builds** - CircleCI offers the ability to securely SSH into a build environment to tail logs, work with files, and directly interact with an environment. This is highly useful for debugging failing builds. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/ssh-access-jobs/[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **SSH Into Builds** - CircleCI offers the ability to https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/ssh-access-jobs/[securely SSH into a build environment] to tail logs, work with files, and directly interact with an environment. This is highly useful for debugging failing builds.
```

> 4. **Docker Layer Caching** - On top of https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/caching/#full-example-of-saving-and-restoring-cache[normal dependency caching], CircleCI offers caching specific to Docker image layers. This means subsequent builds of your Docker images will run faster, cutting even more time off your commit-to-deploy workflows. http://circleci.com/docs/2.0/docker-layer-caching/[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Docker Layer Caching** - On top of https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/caching/#full-example-of-saving-and-restoring-cache[normal dependency caching], CircleCI offers caching specific to http://circleci.com/docs/2.0/docker-layer-caching/[Docker image layers]. This means subsequent builds of your Docker images will run faster, cutting even more time off your commit-to-deploy workflows.
```

> We have a number of other features that set our system apart. https://circleci.com/signup/[Sign up for a free account today] and try us out, or if you're interested in CircleCI for your team, https://circleci.com/talk-to-us/?source-button=MigratingFromGithubActionsDoc[contact our sales team] to set up a trial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a number of other features that set our system apart. https://circleci.com/signup/[Sign up for a free account today] and try us out, or if you are interested in CircleCI for your team, https://circleci.com/talk-to-us/?source-button=MigratingFromGithubActionsDoc[contact our sales team] to set up a trial.
```

CircleCI differs primarily in configuration syntax, setting up workflow and job dependencies in a separate section as opposed to inline in the job.

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="5,5"]
|===
| Github | CircleCI

a|
[source, yaml]
----
name: My GitHub Actions Workflow

on: [push]

jobs:
  job_1:
    name: Job 1
    // ... job 1 config
  job_2:
    name: Job 2
    needs: job_1
    // ... job 2 config
----

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  job_1:
    // ... job 1 config
  job_2:
    // ... job 2 config

workflows:
  my_circleci_workflow:
    jobs:
      - job_1
      - job_2:
          requires:
            - job_1
----
|===

=== Actions and Orbs
"Actions" in Github are reusable commands or tasks to run inside a job. However, they are written for execution inside a Docker container or coded as individual steps using JavaScript. This adds additional work and limits the scope in which they can be applied.

> CircleCI offers similar functionality in our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orb-intro/#section=configuration[Orbs]. The primary difference is that CircleCI Orbs are just packaged, reusable YAML: subsequently you can orbify reusable jobs, executors, or commands, and use them however you see fit in any of your jobs or workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI offers similar functionality in our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orb-intro/#section=configuration[Orbs]. The primary difference is that CircleCI Orbs are just packaged, reusable YAML, so you can orbify reusable jobs, executors, or commands, and use them however you see fit in any of your jobs or workflows.
```

Github offers browsing of Actions in their Marketplace; CircleCI has an https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/[Orb Registry] as well as an https://circleci.com/integrations/[Integrations Page] containing numerous Certified, Partner, and community Orbs / Integrations.

=== Executors
In GitHub, you can specify your builds to run in Linux, macOS, and Windows environments via a `runs-on` key in the YAML, and if you want to run anything in a container, you specify an additional `container` key.

In CircleCI, you have the same choice of environments (called Executors), except that Docker containers are their own class of executor. This eliminates redundancy in declaring a Linux environment when you only plan to run commands in containers.

> For each of the executor types, you have a choice of different versions which will subsequently have various versions of base software installed. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each of the https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/[executor types], you have a choice of different versions which will subsequently have various versions of base software installed.
```

See the table in the next section to compare configuration.

== Configuration Comparison

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="5,5"]
|===
| Github Config | CircleCI Config

> 2+h| Specifying execution environment. While container execution is specified separately in Github, `docker` is its own class of executor in CircleCI. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker--machine--macos--windows-executor[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2+h| Specifying execution environment. While container execution is specified separately in Github, `docker` is its https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker--machine--macos--windows-executor[own class of executor] in CircleCI.
```

  image: openjdk:11.0.3-jdk-stretch
----

a|
[source, yaml]
----
# Docker (container) Executor
docker:
  - image: circleci/openjdk:11.0.3-jdk-stretch

# Linux Ubuntu Executor
machine: true

# macOS Executor
macos:
  xcode: "11.0.0"

# Windows Executor
# NOTE: Orb declaration needed. See docs
executor: win/vs2019
----

2+h| Specifying dependencies/services. All images specified after the first in CircleCI are treated as dependencies. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker[Documentation here].

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    # Main container
    container:
      image: openjdk:11.0.3-jdk-stretch

    # Dependency Service(s)
    services:
      postgres:
        image: postgres:10.8
        env:
          POSTGRES_USER: postgres
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
          POSTGRES_DB: postgres
----

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      # Primary Executor
      - image: circleci/openjdk:11.0.3-jdk-stretch

      # Dependency Service(s)
      - image: postgres:10.8
        environment:
          POSTGRES_USER: postgres
          POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
          POSTGRES_DB: postgres
----

> 2+h| Specifying steps to run in a job. Similar functionality, different syntax. https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run[Documentation here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2+h| Specifying steps to https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run[run] in a job. Similar functionality, different syntax.
```

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  build:
    # ... environment config here

    steps:
      - name: Build with Gradle
        run: ./gradlew build
----

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  build:
    # ... executor config here

    steps:
      - run:
          name: Build with Gradle
          command: ./gradlew build
----

> 2+h| Using pre-packaged config (Actions for Github, Orbs for CircleCI). In CircleCI, you declare the Orbs at the top level and then refer to them by name in config, similar in concept to Python or JavaScript imports https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orbs-user-config/#section=configuration[Documentation here]. This example uses Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2+h| Using pre-packaged config (Actions for Github, Orbs for CircleCI). In CircleCI, you declare orbs at the top level and then refer to them by name in config, similar in concept to Python or JavaScript imports https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orbs-user-config/#section=configuration[Documentation here]. This example uses Slack.
```

CircleCI differs primarily in configuration syntax, setting up workflow and job dependencies in a separate section as opposed to inline in the job.

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
| Github | CircleCI

a|
[source, yaml]
----
name: My GitHub Actions Workflow

on: [push]

jobs:
  job_1:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      # job steps
  job_2:
    needs: job_1
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest 
    steps:
      # job steps
----

a|
[source, yaml]
----
jobs:
  job_1:
    executor: my-ubuntu-exec
    steps:
      # job steps
  job_2:
    executor: my-ubuntu-exec
    steps:
      # job steps

workflows:
  my_workflow:
    jobs:
      - job_1
      - job_2:
          requires:
            - job_1
----
|===

=== Actions vs. Orbs
"Actions" in Github are reusable commands or tasks to run inside a job. However, they are written for execution inside a Docker container or coded as individual steps using JavaScript. This adds additional work and limits the scope in which they can be applied.

> CircleCI offers similar functionality in our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/orb-intro/#section=configuration[Orbs]. The primary difference is that CircleCI Orbs are just packaged, reusable YAML, so you can orbify reusable jobs, executors, or commands, and use them however you see fit in any of your jobs or workflows.

Reviewer 2: Orbs is lower-case. `CircleCI Orbs` -> `CircleCI orbs`

> Github offers browsing of Actions in their Marketplace; CircleCI has an https://circleci.com/orbs/registry/[Orb Registry] as well as an https://circleci.com/integrations/[Integrations Page] containing numerous Certified, Partner, and community Orbs / Integrations.

Reviewer 2: `community Orbs` -> `community orbs`

=== Runners vs. Executors
In GitHub, you can specify your builds to run in Linux, macOS, and Windows environments via a `runs-on` key in the YAML, and if you want to run anything in a container, you specify an additional `container` key.

> In CircleCI, you have the same choice of environments (called Executors), except that Docker containers are their own class of executor.

Reviewer 2: `except that Docker containers are their own class of executor.` -> `with additional options and features for Docker`
